>> Jem: So, IP address,
stands for internet protocol.
It's just the type of protocol that people
agreed on years ago to say, here's how
I wanna communicate with other networks,
and there are lots of different protocols,
but we use something called,
TCP/IP, let me switch.
TCP is transmission control protocol,
we're not gonna cover that because
that is a totally different class.
That's networking 101, but
just know that when someone says TCP/IP,
that's a system that the internet
uses to communicate, one of many.
And it maps IP, we're using,
it takes IP addresses,
which we all learned, and
it maps them to domains.
So think of DNS as
the internet phone book.
If you to jim-young.com,
you're actually going to 23.23.
I don't even know my own IP address,
that's why we use domains.
So remember like two weeks ago when
the internet broke, the internet went out?
What happened?
>> Speaker 2: Wouldn't,
all the major companies got hacked, right?
There was a, was it a DDoS?
>> Jem: It was some sort of DDoS.
>> Speaker 2: [CROSSTALK] hack where
they hacked all the major companies,
like Google.
All the major, like Amazon or
whatnot, that so
one could do the online- They
actually hacked the DNS provider.
>> Speaker 3: Which basically shut down
everybody from looking up any address.
>> Jem: Exactly right.
And this is one of the weak
points of the internet is that
as humans we can't remember
what these IP addresses are.
I don't even remember my own IP address
from my own server I've had for years.
So DNS is just kind of a friendly way of
resolving domain names, IP addresses.
So when that hack happened actually, it
wasn't an attack on individual companies
and it was only an attack on one company,
I believe in Massachusetts or main.
And it took the DNS offline
which broke the internet but
it didn't, it just meant that we can
type in domain gets resolved anymore.
So that's a failing of DNS and
it's something to be aware of.
But don't worry, it's probably
not gonna happen to your website.
And there's caches and all sorts of
different mechanisms to prevent that.
But we see the internet's so fragile,
it's a lot of different parts,
that if one gear breaks,
the whole thing breaks.
But anyway, sorry, that was a total
tangent, but yes, DNS, Domain Name System.
Internet phone book, that's all you
need to remember, internet phone book.
So now I know, 23.185.
Yeah, so now,
wwwjemyoung.com 23.23.185.61.
I know.
I am just beating this into you.
I know, because this is the beginning,
this is the intro on
how the Internet works.